RAG documentation (#928)
IBM/unitxt: docs/docs/rag_support.rst

.. _rag_support
 
=====================================
RAG Support ✨
=====================================

.. _rag_intro:

Introduction
============
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipelines consist of the following steps:

#. The user submits a question.
#. The question is sent as a query to a retrieval system to obtain relevant texts addressing the question.
#. A generative model is prompted to answer the user question based on the retrieved content. 
#. The generated answer is returned to the user.

> RAG evaluation covers the performance of both the retrieval system and the generative model. We will refer to the output of the retrieval system as ``retrieved texts`` or ``contexts`` (an ordered list of texts with ids) and the output of the generative model as ``generated answer`` (a text string). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RAG evaluation covers the performance of both the retrieval system and the generative model. We refer to the output of the retrieval system as ``retrieved texts`` or ``contexts`` (an ordered list of texts with ids) and the output of the generative model as ``generated answer`` (a text string). 
```

.. _rag_task:

Task
======

> The RAG Task is defined as follows:
> 
> * Inputs:
> 
>   * question: str - the user question
>   * question_id: str - a unique identifier of the question
>   * metadata_field: str - an optional metadata such as the question category
> 
> * Outputs:
> 
>   * contexts: List[str] - the texts retrieved from the index for the question
>   * contexts_id: List[str] - unique ids of contexts
>   * answer: str - the answer generated by the RAG pipeline for the question
> 
> * Reference-Fields:
>   
>   * reference_answers: List[str] - ground truth answers for the question
>   * reference_contexts: List[str] - ground truth retrieved texts for the question
>   * reference_context_ids: List[str] - unique ids of reference_contexts
>   * is_answerable_label: bool - indicator whether the question is answerable or not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RAG Task Definition
===================

This definition outlines the inputs, outputs, and reference fields necessary for executing the RAG Task.

**Inputs:**
  - `question` (str): The user's question.
  - `question_id` (str): A unique identifier for the question.
  - `metadata_field` (str): Optional metadata, such as the question category.

**Outputs:**
  - `contexts` (List[str]): Texts retrieved from the index for the question.
  - `contexts_id` (List[str]): Unique IDs of the retrieved contexts.
  - `answer` (str): The answer generated by the RAG pipeline for the question.

**Reference-Fields:**
  - `reference_answers` (List[str]): Ground truth answers for the question.
  - `reference_contexts` (List[str]): Ground truth retrieved texts for the question.
  - `reference_context_ids` (List[str]): Unique IDs of the ground truth contexts.
  - `is_answerable_label` (bool): Indicator whether the question is answerable or not.
```

.. _rag_metrics:

Metrics
========

> RAG evaluation is done using automatic reference-based and referwence-less metrics as described below. The figure below shows a range of automatic metrics for RAG organized with pointers to their inputs and implementation. The metrics are explained below the figure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RAG evaluation is conducted using both automatic `reference-based` and `reference-less` metrics, as detailed below. The figure below displays a variety of automatic metrics for RAG, organized with pointers to their inputs and implementations. Detailed explanations of these metrics are provided below the figure.
```

  
When it comes to the assessment of answer quality, we typically see an attempt to characterize this abstract property using various, more basic and apparently well-defined, aspects, such as: factual correctness, naturalness, appropriateness, conciseness, faithfulness, relevance, clarity, among others. However, due to the convoluted inter-relations between these properties, labeling each one of them in isolation effectively and consistently by humans is a non-trivial task that is hardly practical. It requires an exhaustive and well-defined but also clear and intuitive annotation scheme, as well as long-term training and monitoring of the labelers.

As a counter approach, the holistic view on quality aims to characterize this property using simple, direct, questions in a realistic scenario. For example, in the comparative setup, instead of asking human labelers to rate answers by various abstract properties as mentioned above and then somehow mixing all the scores together and concluding which answer is better, it directly asks the labelers to indicate which answer is better in the use-case in which the answer is to be given (e.g. a chatbot about enterprise HR policies). 

> The underlying assumption here is that the labeler will implicitly appeal to all fine-grained properties like naturalness, conciseness, faithfulness, etc. and reward the overall better answer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The underlying assumption here is that the labeler implicitly appeal to all fine-grained properties like naturalness, conciseness, faithfulness, etc. and reward the overall better answer. 
```
